Feature/m0081 meja 2367 linear mem and sni review (#1186)
MicroEJ/docs: ApplicationDeveloperGuide/managedc/memory.rst

.. _managedc.linear.memory:

Configure the Linear Memory
===========================

The WebAssembly specification defines the linear memory as a contiguous, byte-addressable memory region used by Wasm programs to read and write data.
The linear memory is available as an array of bytes (``byte[]``) in the :ref:`the host <managedc.communication.managedc_memory>`.

.. _managedc.linear.memory.layout:

Configure the Linear Memory Layout
----------------------------------

The Wasm linear memory is composed of the following sections:

* **Static Data**: Contains statically linked constants and global variables.

> * **Main Stack**: Used for temporary allocations and to store some local variables. The stack grows downward (toward lower memory addresses).

Reviewer: reorder this list, put the **Main stack** first

.. figure:: ../images/linear_memory_layout.png
   :scale: 75%
   :align: center

   Wasm Linear Memory Layout

This ensures that both stack overflows and heap overflows trigger an exception when accessing out-of-bounds memory.

.. _managedc.linear.memory.size.configuration:

Configure the Linear Memory Size
--------------------------------

The WebAssembly specification organizes the linear memory in pages, where each page is 64 KB (65,536 bytes).
This page-based structure has been designed for efficient memory allocation and potential growth during runtime for large environments.
However, the minimum page size (64KB) is not suitable for constrained embedded environments, where memory resources are limited.

MicroEJ implementation allocates the linear memory once at module startup and is not dynamically resized.

By default, the size of the linear memory is initialized with the Wasm module initial number of pages.
The Wasm module initial number of pages can be configured using the ``-Wl,--initial-memory=[size_in_bytes]`` :ref:`linker option <managedc.link.command_line_options>`. 
The given size must be a multiple of 64KB, i.e. a number of pages.

> It is possible to reduce the size of the linear memory lower than 64KB if both conditions are met:

Reviewer: Can you rephrase to this
```suggestion
The size of the linear memory can be reduced to below 64KB if both of the following conditions are met:
```

* the Wasm module does not embed neither the ``memory.size`` nor the ``memory.grow`` instructions. This is the case if the C code does not transitively calls the ``malloc`` implementation declared in WASI libc.
* the Wasm module exports the ``__heap_base`` global using the ``-Wl,--export=__heap_base`` :ref:`linker option <managedc.link.command_line_options>`.

In this case, the linear memory is initialized to the value of the ``__heap_base`` global, which represents the sum of the stack size and the static data size.

.. _managedc.linear.memory.size.stack:

Configure the Main Stack Size
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, the main stack size is initialized to ``65536``.
You can adjust the linear memory stack size to using the ``-z stack-size=[size_in_bytes]`` :ref:`linker option <managedc.link.command_line_options>`.

Configuration Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following Managed C code declares a static array of ``100`` bytes, and does not embed neither the ``memory.size`` nor the ``memory.grow`` instructions.

.. code:: c

    char my_static_data[100];

> The C code is compiled with the following options: ``-Wl,--no-entry -nostdlib -Wl,--export=my_static_data -Wl,--stack-first``.

Reviewer: why exporting the `my_static_data`?

Author: ok as discussed we turn it with --export-all

.. _managedc.linear.memory:

Wasm Linear Memory
===================

Wasm linear memory is a contiguous, byte-addressable memory region used in Wasm programs.
It is the main mechanism through which a Wasm module manages its memory and exchanges data with :ref:`the host <managedc.communication.managedc_memory>`.

> This memory is represented as an array of bytes, indexed starting at zero, and is :ref:`dynamically resizable <managedc.instructions.partially_supported>`.

Author: add [--no-growable-memory](https://lld.llvm.org/WebAssembly.html#cmdoption-no-growable-memory)

Wasm Linear Memory Layout
-------------------------

When a Wasm module is compiled, its memory is divided into different regions as following:

* **Static Data region**: Reserved for constants and global variables.
* **Auxiliary Stack region**: Used for temporary allocations and some local variables, grows downward (toward lower memory addresses).
* **Heap region**: Dynamic memory allocations, grows upward.

.. figure:: ../images/linear_memory_layout.png
   :scale: 75%
   :align: center

   Wasm Linear Memory Layout

.. note:: 

    The boundary between the auxiliary stack + the Static Data regions and the heap region is marked by the special Wasm global ``__heap_base``

> Wasm Linear Memory Size

Author: ```suggestion
Configure the Wasm Linear Memory Size
```

-----------------------

> WebAssembly organizes linear memory in pages, where each page is **64 KiB** (65,536 bytes).

Author: ```suggestion
WebAssembly organizes linear memory in pages, where each page is **64 KB** (65,536 bytes).
```

This page-based structure allows for efficient memory allocation and potential growth during runtime. 
However, the page size value is less suitable for embedded environments, where memory resources are more limited.

Given the following Wasm module:

.. code:: wat

    (module
        (memory $mem 2 10)
        (export "memory" (memory $mem))
    )

> This linear memory of this module should have an initial Size of **2 pages** (128 KiB), and a maximum Size of **10 pages** (640 KiB).

Author: ```suggestion
This linear memory of this module should have an initial size of **2 pages** (128 KB), and a maximum Size of **10 pages** (640 KB).
```
